Good afternoon. My name is Anton Kalabin. I am the owner of several companies and an advisor to strategic management of a number of large companies in Russia.
When we think about how to manage business or any other human community as effectively as possible, the word charisma is very often used.
And today we will talk about charisma, about leadership.
When people say the word charisma, there is often a complete misunderstanding. Everyone means their own thing under this word.
In general, if you look at the historical retrospective, then charisma is an ancient Greek word that takes its origin in church practice.
In Greek, charisma is translated as a gift from God.
In church analogues, it is described that each person has a gift from God from birth, which includes his or her personality, ability to perform various specific actions.
It is claimed that if a person is endowed with some divine gift, then he must use it for his purpose. And not using God's gift, charisma, is a sin.
From this point of view, the approach is very correct. It motivates people to use it if they succeed.
Max Weber introduced a slightly different definition of charisma in scientific practice.
Under charisma, he meant a person who possessed an exceptional set of supernatural qualities.
Thus, according to Max Weber, people, seeing or attributing to a person exceptional qualities, were ready to follow this person wherever he would say, obey his orders without any additional motivators.
Now, when people say the word charisma, there is often a confusion with the public, with the fame, with the qualities of a showman.
Of course, and we will analyze this a little later, the ability to communicate in public is generally one of the necessary qualities of a leader.
However, it is not decisive. If a person is famous and public, it does not mean that he is charismatic. But this is my opinion.
Let's try to approach this issue from a scientific point of view.
Most people, when they start to discuss what charisma is and what to do with it, make a standard mistake.
They begin to argue about the structure of this phenomenon without setting its functionality, without naming, without defining the circle of phenomena that this term describes.
Such a definition in science is called functional. And only by defining the circle of phenomena that we call this term, we can proceed to the study of how it all happens, what this phenomenon consists of.
The internal structure of a phenomenon is described by a structural definition.
And only after we assign this phenomenon, this term, to the functional, we have defined its internal structure, only after that we can start research work to be able to predict how this phenomenon will happen in the future.
That is, we start making a model. The third definition is called a model.
Let's see how this approach works in the description of such a well-known phenomenon as electricity.
When the ancient Greeks first encountered the phenomenon of electricity, they called it the word electro.
Electro from the ancient Greek entary.
That is, they simply assigned a certain term to what they observed, the phenomenon of the attraction of woolen hairs to the entary after they were lost from each other.
Having designated this circle of phenomena, they were able to understand what it consists of.
They began to describe. As a result, it became possible to study what materials can be lost from each other so that this phenomenon occurs, what materials cannot.
That is, when this phenomenon occurs, when it does not.
After a large enough empirical material was accumulated, people began to come up with various hypotheses, to give model definitions.
At first, the models were quite primitive.
The hypothesis was that electricity is some liquid that flows from one substance to another.
Now we are working with the model definition that electricity is a stream of charged particles.
And the presence of these particles, their concentration in a certain physical body, determines its electrical properties.
If we talk about charisma, then it is important for us to first determine what functionality this word describes.
If we give a strict scientific definition of functionality, it will sound as follows.
Charisma is the ability to influence people through positive social motivation.
And now a few words about what it means.
Motivation is the incitement of people to do something.
In this case, the word positive social motivation indicates that we do not consider material motivation.
That is, we say that this is not a commodity-money relationship, not a relationship of paid with the deed.
When we talk about positive social motivation, we say that this is not a compulsion, that is, it is not the use of violence.
If a person uses violence to force another person to do something, he uses social motivation, that is, he does not pay him.
He does not pay in any way, no matter whether with material or other resources.
But at the same time, he acts through negative social motivation, he forces him.
So, charisma is the ability to influence people through positive social motivation.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the word ability is used here.
And here we can divide two extremely important concepts, which are very often confused, by the way.
Leadership and charisma.
So, charisma is a potential, it is an ability to influence, and leadership is the process itself.
That is, it is impossible to be a leader without charisma.
However, you can have charisma and not be a leader.
A charismatic person, who is able to potentially influence people, may not use this potential if he does not want to.
He may hide and not show his leadership qualities.
So, leadership is a process of influence.
Naturally, here we are also talking about influence through positive social motivation.
All other influence is no longer leadership, it is another way of managing people.
So, leadership is a process of influence through positive social motivation.
Accordingly, a leader in this approach is a subject of influence.
That is, the one who actually carries out the process of leadership.
Actor.
If we try to reformulate the definition of charisma a little and make it simpler and more understandable,
the definition of charisma will sound as follows.
This is the definition that I use in my practice all the time.
Charisma is the ability to persuade and lead.
By working with this definition, we can move on to the structural definition of charisma.
We need to understand what properties this phenomenon has.
In fact, there are not so many important properties for us.
There are only three.
The first property is visible from the definition that we have just made.
This is the dual nature of charisma.
Look carefully at the previous definition.
It consists of two parts.
The first part is the ability to persuade.
The second part is the ability to lead.
Now try to remember several people you know who can persuade but cannot lead.
Most likely, people who can persuade and cannot lead will be people who can be called specialists,
scientists, advisors, consultants.
Now try to remember people, maybe not even your close friends,
but some famous people who can persuade almost no one, but can lead well.
Most likely, politicians, sports team captains, agitators of all kinds will come here.
Now try to remember people who can persuade and lead.
Most likely, there are not so many people you can remember.
And almost all of them can be combined in one word.
These are leaders.
These leaders can be business leaders, political or public.
But we can call those people who can persuade and lead.
One shoulder does not work.
Only if both shoulders are included, then a leader appears.
A person who can be called by this word.
The second characteristic of charisma, which is no less important than the first, is its relativity.
You can evaluate whether a person is charismatic or not by your experience.
We can judge only when we have a pair that interacts, a person and his audience.
Without asking the audience, we cannot say whether a person is charismatic or not.
Only when we know who we measure this quality with, we can say this.
In the definition of charisma, there is a word influence.
This is someone, a subject, who influences someone.
Until there is at least one of these parts, we cannot say whether this ability exists or not.
Therefore, the term is usually used for politicians who work with a large electorate.
The second side of this interaction is asked by default.
However, if you really want to use charisma to improve the quality of your own life,
you must always remember that this concept is relative.
Every time you want to influence someone, you must understand that this audience,
even if it is just one person, can be very different from another.
The words you use to influence the qualities you need to influence a young girl
are completely different from the qualities you need to influence a graduate professor.
But in general.
Although, of course, there are some basic things that affect everyone.
We will return to them a little later.
So, try to imagine what qualities you need to influence your colleagues.
Those people who do not obey you directly and those who cannot command you.
Try to write down 2-3 qualities that can enhance your ability to influence them.
Now draw a line and write down 2-3 qualities that will allow you to effectively influence
an audience like 4-year-old children in a kindergarten.
Compare the results.
After that, compare how similar the 2-3 qualities you wrote down in the first and second case turned out to be.
Most likely, there will be no 100% match.
It seems to me.
So, every time you want to gain the ability to influence an audience,
it is important for you to clearly understand what kind of audience it is.
Describe it clearly.
Of course, over time, when you train, you will be able to do it faster and more unconsciously.
But at least in the beginning, in order to use this tool effectively and to its intended purpose,
you need to go through certain stages.
At the end, we will give you a complete algorithm, we will derive it in a clear form.
But now remember, the most important thing before you start influencing someone,
you need to understand who exactly you want to influence now.
And what unique qualities this community, this audience, describes.
So, the second characteristic of charisma that we must constantly remember is its relativity.
If you want, try to look at what will be the difference between you and such audiences as,
for example, scientists at the International Conference on Sociobiology
and miners with helmets sitting on a stone bridge and knocking on them.
There is another characteristic of charisma, the basic characteristic of which I highlight,
this is its multifacetedness.
We already touched on this a little when we talked about the fact that different qualities can be required for different audiences.
So, a huge number of factors affect each of the audiences.
When we study this issue in training, lists of 20, 30, 40 items appear.
And this is not the limit.
You can continue this list indefinitely,
practically describe the characteristics of a personality that help it influence other people.
However, we can structure the list a little,
and combine them into several important groups.
So, the first group is the most obvious, it is professional qualities.
If a person is a specialist, then along with other people who work in this specialty,
use this skill.
If he has this skill well, he will be respected.
If he has a bad personality, he will be criticized.
That is, he will have the opportunity to convince, at least.
So, if we talk about the ability to convince,
then we need to have at least professional competence.
The second group is something that professional competence cannot be realized without.
This is the ability to communicate.
If a person knows how to do it, knows how to do it right, but is not able to express it,
is not able to tell people about it,
then he will not even be able to realize his ability to convince.
If a person knows how to communicate well,
knows the basic laws of social interaction between people,
understands how to build his speech, where to start, where to end,
at what point it is better to send a call to the audience,
then he will be able to lead.
And the third group of factors is behavior.
A person must behave like a leader.
He must be perceived as a leader, he must be like him.
Here, of course, we will take confidence in ourselves
and the algorithms that a person uses when communicating with other people.
How does he behave?
How to behave correctly, you need to work separately
and look at the next point of our work
how, by what laws, you need to behave correctly.
So, the third property of charisma sounds like multifacetedness.
And charisma is a simple sum of all the factors that exist.
Of course, not a single person is able to have all the properties that are possible.
In principle, this is impossible.
However, we can work purposefully and consciously on the development of each of these qualities.
Try to write down for yourself the qualities that you consider the most important from your target audience.
For example, for your loved ones, for your family, or for your boss.
And then, according to each of these qualities, I assure you,
there are certain methods, books, literature, coaches, teachers
that will help you develop this quality.
And so, by working on each of the qualities separately, you increase the total amount of your charisma.
As a result, your ability to influence other people through positive social motivation becomes higher.
As a result, you will be able to persuade and lead much better.
So, we have drawn up three main properties of charisma.
First, it is its dual nature.
In order to be charismatic, you need to be able to persuade and lead.
We found out that charisma is a relative concept.
And in order to find out whether this ability exists or not,
you need to ask the subject and the object, the actor and his target audience.
And we found out that charisma is a multifactorial concept.
Now, when we have both functional and structural definitions of charisma,
we can try to create a model of this phenomenon,
on the basis of which we will be able to or will try to predict our own behavior
and find out what qualities, what factors and how to apply them
so that your ability to influence people grows and increases.
So, psychology tells us that a person often acts unconsciously,
that most of the actions of a person are determined by those ancient behavioral structures
that were embedded in him by nature for many millennia of his development.
For a very long time, people lived, pro-people, lived in the form of certain flocks.
These flocks had a certain social organization.
And this social organization has been preserved for millennia,
thus being recorded in our ancient memory.
How were these primary primitive communities arranged?
If we look at the existing flocks of primates today,
the flock of chimpanzees will be the closest to the pro-human flock.
It consists of the following parts.
There are many children who are raised together.
There are several females who make up the harem.
And there is the main male, the supreme leader of this community.
A large adult male.
There are no other adult males in this community.
As the boys grow up, when they reach puberty, they are driven out of this community, from this flock.
And so there is a clear division into three levels.
This is the alpha male, the supreme dominant in this community.
These are the beta females, those who occupy the second layer in the hierarchy.
And the gamma males, those who do nothing, do not solve anything, and their main task is to grow.
Look at the roles distributed in this community.
Almost all the leadership is concentrated in the hands of the alpha male.
He performs a very important function for his flock.
And for this, the flock is completely subordinate to him.
Over time, when some events occur, the male turns on and saves, protects his flock from external threats.
He also organizes so that the flock does not die of hunger.
His task is to get food or organize the food production.
His task is to ensure that the individuals inside the flock do not quarrel.
So that the conflicts that arise inside end well.
In fact, he is the supreme judge and distributor of those material benefits that the flock has.
If the flock needs to make an important decision, it is he who decides what decision will be made and where the flock will go.
Is it time to go to the winter camp? Is it time to make supplies?
Do you need to move to the other side of the river or stay in the same place?
All this is decided by the alpha male.
As a result, a very interesting construction is obtained.
In order for this system to work, all members of the flock must unconditionally submit to the alpha male.
If they do not obey him 100%, then this will worsen the possibilities of this community for survival.
If the decision is made, it must be executed without prejudice.
Any doubts reduce the possibility of the flock for survival.
If the alpha male says that he needs to go to the other side of the river, and the flock remains on the same bank,
or just stayed for a while, it is already deprived of the protection of the alpha male and can be eaten by other predators.
If the alpha male organized a group hunting, but some hunters did not listen to him and left the places where they were assigned,
then the prey can run out through these holes in the hunting structure and the flock can be left without food.
Accordingly, the chances of survival are worsened.
Therefore, only those flocks survived as a result of the long evolution,
in which all individuals who are not alpha males took over the alpha male unconditionally, without discussion.
Fortunately or unfortunately, this ancient construct is present in us.
Thus, it turns out a very interesting thing.
If we see in someone a certain quality of this primitive alpha male,
we want to obey him without any doubt, without any criticism.
We want to believe him. We begin to trust him absolutely instinctively.
So, our model definition at this stage sounds like this.
The one who looks like a father has charisma.
Before we write these signs, let's remember again what functions the father performs in such a flock.
The first and most important function is that he protects his flock.
The second and no less important function is that he provides food and resources.
The third function is that he judges and distributes.
He does not allow conflicts to enter, which could end badly.
He is the highest justice.
He will decide.
And the fourth, the last and most important function,
which is performed by a leader in any community and a father in any flock, is to direct.
He directs the flock. He decides where and who will go.
The community has a goal.
These are the four main functions.
Now let's see how the father performed these functions.
What qualities allowed him to do it well.
So, high growth.
I think that it is not necessary to explain how the physical strength allows you to perform all four functions.
It is especially important for distribution, so that no one has the desire to redistribute the production.
In addition to strength, a person who claims to perform the highest function should be healthy.
We can give a lot of examples of very strong people, but not very healthy.
It should be noted that in the charismatic influence, this is reflected quite strongly.
People tend to leave the function of persuasion to not very healthy people.
These are the so-called patriarchs.
Any developed community contains such people in order to receive wise advice from them.
But no one will follow them on an emotional call.
That is, they are left to the role of experts.
Therefore, in order to be a full-fledged strong leader,
it is necessary to demonstrate not only physical strength, but also health.
The fourth quality I would like to mention is a very important, but not immediately obvious, quality of the father.
This is a low voice.
Usually, when we get to this point in training, a legal question arises.
Not all leaders have high growth, physical strength, physical health, and a low voice.
At this point, it is very useful to go back a little and remember that charisma is a multifactorial concept.
We have just started writing this list.
There are still a lot of factors.
If a person does not have physical health, he can compensate for it through other properties.
And, by the way, thank God, all these factors are physical.
Accordingly, modern means of communication allow you to play off many of these qualities.
Thus, directors and operators shoot the low-ranking leaders from below, thereby visually increasing their growth.
The information about the illnesses and health of political leaders is usually, to put it mildly, slightly distorted and more optimistic.
The voice is modulated on a special equipment.
With the help of long editing and long work of specialists, the leader's speech can be more smooth, more literate.
The speech can be more concise, more clear, and the speech can be more clear.
Special people try to teach the leader how to move correctly, how to work on camera.
And probably the most provocative sign that I would like to give you today is that an alpha male is a man.
No matter how offensive and a little annoying it is to the ladies, according to the model of charisma, according to the model of the ancient property of human influence on a man,
men have a slightly greater chance of making this influence.
This is just one of the factors, thank God, and far from the most important.
There are many factors, and the most important one is very relative.
Therefore, women can also be charismatic leaders.
It's just that one of their qualities is practically closed.
Although, on the other hand, look at the women who try to play the role of a leader.
What are they doing? How are they trying to reduce the influence of this factor?
They stop wearing high heels.
They use minimal jewelry.
Haircuts. Long hair has always been an archetypal feature of women.
Now, a lot of women, the vast majority of women, prefer short haircuts.
This also allows them to look more like men.
The standard of beauty among women is a slim, dry figure with unclearly expressed female forms.
This is also a way to look a little more like a man than a little less like a woman.
If we look at each of the parameters, there are always ways to correct.
By the way, about heels. High height.
In principle, by wearing heels, you can increase your height.
Wide heels allow you to combine the improvement of your parameters in terms of high height and not be too feminine.
A thin hairpin, of course, although increases height, but emphasizes femininity too much.
So, we looked at a fairly simple model of how a potential charismatic leader should behave and how he should look.
Let's go a little deeper.
Let's look at the so-called social distance system.
We will call the social distance the number of similarities that two people have.
The commonalities of interests, manners of behavior, common rituals, common acquaintances, common interests.
Everything that people have in common reduces their social distance.
The social distance between them.
Everything that people have in common increases the social distance.
If someone loves ballet, and another loves theater, then the social distance between them is quite large.
It is not infinitely large, because both of these people love art.
But at the same time, it is large enough, because these are different types of art.
However, this social distance between them will be smaller than, for example, the distance between a football fan and a classical music lover.
Thus, having looked at all the parameters, all the qualities, we can imagine a certain social distance between two people.
The minimum distance, for example, will be between brothers who have a small age difference, grew up in the same family,
were raised by the same parents, went to the same school.
There will be a very small social distance between them, because they are very similar in many ways and know a lot about each other.
This is also an important aspect of social distance.
The amount of information we know about another person is proportional to the social distance between us.
So, people who have a very small social distance between them, we will call brothers.
Brothers, sisters, gender in this case does not matter.
These are people who are very similar to each other.
In principle, by analogy with the ancient Prostai, we can say that these are the gamma of children who are there.
It is not necessary to be children in life to have small social distances.
The social distance between spouses is usually quite small.
Between colleagues who have a close career, do about the same job, obey the same manager,
there is also a lot of similarity between them, they will also be brothers.
The social distance between them is small.
If the social distance between people is very large, if two people know very little about each other,
or practically know nothing, if they have different interests, even if they do not know each other,
but have different interests, diametrically opposite,
we can say that these people have nothing in common.
The social distance between them is large.
Starting from a certain social distance, we will call people strangers to each other.
In order to understand how the mechanisms of charisma, the mechanisms of leadership work,
how people can influence each other, we need to look at the middle layer that is between brothers and strangers.
Why? A stranger cannot influence us in any way.
He is not significant to us in principle, by definition.
We consider him a stranger.
The first reaction he will cause us will be a reaction of caution.
Any attempt to influence us will cause us fear, caution,
and we will look at him for a long time before we start listening to him.
On the other hand, if a person eats with us from the same bowl,
then it is also unnatural for us to try to control him or listen to him,
because we are in the same social position.
Accordingly, whenever one of the brothers tries to command,
in response he will receive a reaction, and why did you actually command here?
Who gave you this right?
Those who have a small social distance between themselves cannot be in a power relationship by definition.
This is the reason why the vast majority of consultants in management do not advise managers to enter close social contacts with subordinates.
This is the case when it is said that it is harmful and bad to take friends and relatives to work,
because it is much more difficult to manage these people than people taken from the outside.
So, we have a zone of short social distances, where those who are inside are called brothers,
and there is an external zone called strangers.
What is between them? Let's see.
So, we have a zone of short social distances.
This plane is a plane of social distances.
The closer the points are located to each other, the smaller the social distance between objects.
So, there is a central circle that is around you.
You are in the center.
You or the target audience.
Let's really call it the target audience.
So, there are those around it who know very well about it,
those about whom the target audience is very well known and in many ways similar.
These people form an internal circle called brothers.
Those who are outside the external large circle, we have already talked about, are called strangers.
Who will be inside?
Those who are not strangers are not yet brothers.
If we imagine that this scale has two directions, positive and negative,
then we can easily decide who is where.
So, if we have an object that we know well about,
but it is separated from us quite strongly in the negative direction,
how do you think the target audience will treat such an object?
Here, the target audience will be bank employees.
People in suits, with ties, always in white starched shirts,
with their shoes cleaned out.
People for whom a formal label is a very defining and strict requirement.
Now, let's imagine a person they know,
for example, their client, a worker of the client's company,
who came to them for some ordinary negotiations.
How will they treat him if he differs from them in clothing,
and differs in the negative direction?
How can you tell the clothing from the negative direction from bank employees?
Well, probably, it's some torn jeans,
some kind of free-style shirt with flowers,
stretched to the waist,
some kind of earring, earrings in the ears,
a thick gold bracelet,
and some kind of sneakers on the feet.
How will the bank employees treat such an object?
He differs from them in the negative direction,
but he is not one of them.
So, they will treat him in a very negative way.
And most likely, they will not go to a deal with such a person.
That is, the communication that will go to this person will be very negative.
Such a person turns into a person of the perverse nature.
The same applies to any rather weak person in any community.
Since, according to most significant signs, he differs in the negative direction,
he is weaker, he has a weaker voice, he is short,
he looks more like a girl, he does not have any significant achievements.
I am talking about a male community.
Any such person becomes a pervert, he is humiliated, humiliated, offended.
This is a place of perversion.
What will happen to a person who stands out in the positive direction?
Who is a little smarter, a little taller, a little healthier,
has a slightly lower voice, or not very much.
Such a person moves in this direction.
And it is this person, according to such a person, will be listened to.
Such a person will have the opportunity to convince his target audience in something
and, in the end, to lead it after him.
This is the place of the leader.
Thus, we have a clear behavioral recipe
for turning yourself into a leader in some community.
First, when you start communicating,
if we take the ideal case, the audience is not familiar to you.
As soon as the communication begins, you are in the position of a stranger.
The audience does not know you.
The first task is to stop being a stranger,
and to enter the inner zone of this circle.
The antonym for the word stranger is your own.
The first thing you need to show people is that you are your own.
And the second consequence is that you are not quite your own,
that is, you are in the zone of brothers,
but you are still in the external zone to them,
and you are not in the negative zone, but in the positive one.
That is, according to a number of signs, you are the best.
A simple recipe for charismatic happiness.
We need to determine how we need to become our own,
and how we need to become better.
The algorithm is simple.
First, you need to solve the first task of becoming your own,
then work on being in the best direction.
No other way.
In order to become your own or to become better,
we need to choose a certain parameter that we will adapt to.
Of course, the parameters can be quite arbitrary,
but there is a fairly simple rule by which you need to select these parameters.
If you want to become better in front of your target audience,
then you need to rely on the qualities significant for this audience.
If you rely on the knowledge of filmography by Fellini
in the Society of Biological Professors,
you are unlikely to have the opportunity to have a strong impact on this audience.
However, if you say that you studied biology,
have a degree in it, a number of scientific works,
that the best laboratory in the world is under your leadership,
then they will probably start to listen to what you say.
So, in order to stand out in the best direction,
we will have to use the parameters that are most significant for this target audience.
Automatically, this means that we cannot use these parameters,
well, we can, of course, but it is undesirable,
to use them in order to become our own.
That is, the rule sounds very simple.
To become your own, you need to become the best in the most significant parameters for this target audience.
How can this be done?
Let's take any target audience.
For example, in my opinion, we looked at how to stand out in the audience of children from kindergarten.
The first thing you need to do is to become your own.
To become your own in this audience may seem quite difficult.
You are adults, they are children, they think about toys,
you think about serious adult things.
Their whole world is focused on their peers,
and on dad and mom, and your whole world is focused on your own families.
How to become your own?
We choose any parameter that is not very significant.
For example, clothes, external objects, external interests.
For example, children will perceive clothes much better
than a person who comes to them in shorts and a light T-shirt,
than a person who comes to them in clean shoes,
in an expensive suit, in a smooth shirt with shiny big zippers,
and tries to get in touch with them.
That is, loose, wrinkled clothes are a minor parameter.
Wrinkled clothes allow you to get closer to the audience and become your own.
If you take a toy in your hand,
if you smile as openly as they do,
if your hairstyle has a certain disorder,
which is typical for this target audience,
then children will perceive you much better.
However, if you talk to them from top to bottom,
if you speak with a low voice,
if you emphasize your significance,
you will create a very large social distance between yourself and this target audience.
You should not be so serious and so threatening to them,
otherwise you will become a stranger to them, just an external threat.
Accordingly, you will not be able to influence this audience,
because all their thoughts will be focused on how to get into a long-range from you.
The ideal option to remove anxiety in this regard is to sit down,
to get on the same level with them.
Thus, children will perceive you as their own.
So, you should wear loose clothes,
have a messy hairstyle,
and have the same horizontal level of eyes as your children.
Thus, you have become your own,
you have been perceived as you are.
Further, of course, in this target audience,
it is much easier to emphasize that you are better,
and you do not have to do anything for it.
Because it is obvious that you are bigger for them,
that you know more, have more experience.
It is obvious that you are physically stronger.
Any adult figure is very important for children.
Therefore, in this case,
one thing that you have become your own,
already allows you to become a leader automatically,
because the other signs work automatically.
Let's take another target audience.
Let's take, for example, the target audience of a military school cadet.
Let's imagine that you are a programmer
who has successfully retired from the army,
who has a fairly subtle physique,
knows the languages ​​of Pascal, C++ and Java very well.
How can such a person become his own
with the cadets of the military-maritime school?
Healthy, strong guys,
accustomed to hard discipline,
to the schedule of the day,
accustomed to listening to the bosses with powerful, powerful voices.
How can you become your own
with such a target audience?
But probably it is not worth saying that you have never been to the sea.
Probably it is not worth saying that you are pulling up twice as hard as if you were jumping.
And probably it is not worth boasting about the deep knowledge of programming languages.
What is worth boasting about in this case?
In this case, you can say that you are just as young as they are,
that you are worried about the same problems as they are.
These are problems, for example, of the opposite sex.
Further, you can say that you have an older brother who also graduated from the maritime school.
Well, probably some of your relatives served.
Just mentioning that you have some of your relatives who served in the armed forces
already makes you much closer to these people.
This signals to them that you understand them.
You know what it is.
This way you can become your own.
How to become better?
What is the most important thing for young healthy cadets?
Well, probably they are very concerned about the problem of how to charm a girl.
If you say that you know a few good recipes,
you will immediately concentrate their attention on you
and get the opportunity to tell them what you want.
There are a lot of other ways to stand out in the best direction.
For example, since you are a smart, competent person,
you can say that you read maps well,
that you know how to navigate well,
that you can tell them about the Google Earth service.
If you are not familiar with it, they will listen to you with their mouths open.
The presence of professional knowledge is, as we remember,
one of the powerful pieces of charismatic factors.
The second factor is communication.
In this case, if you show them that you can easily communicate,
answer their questions flexibly,
you will also increase your ability to influence these people.
And the third behavioral factor.
If you know how to behave with the audience,
how to treat them,
what models to imagine,
what behavior models to follow,
then people will also penetrate you with deep respect.
And you will be able to manage them based on positive social motivation.
If we are talking about ways to influence the audience,
we should not separate these methods into two large groups.
The first group will be those tools that influence quickly,
almost instantly.
The second group will be those tools that interact for a long time,
although not so intensively.
So, quick resources.
Quick charismatic resources.
This group of resources includes what people can perceive immediately.
Quick resources.
What can a person assess immediately?
He can assess external data.
Accordingly, it is much easier to get a quick influence on other people,
people of high height,
who look healthy, strong,
who have a low, rich timbre of voice.
What other factors can be attributed to the quick?
All the factors that say that a person is smart,
has a great insight.
What can be attributed to this?
First, a good insight is a connection with a foreign country.
Any kind of connection.
It can be reading,
or simply knowledge of foreign languages.
It can be the fact that a person has often traveled abroad,
or often travels, visited many countries.
The fact that a person has foreign friends.
The fact that he reads foreign literature.
By the way, in the professional circle,
knowledge of professional literature in other languages
is a very strong charismatic factor.
Because most of the audience, the target audience,
is cut off from this information.
A person becomes a unique carrier of this information.
Just a foreign surname.
The presence of a foreign spouse.
Foreign citizenship.
All these are factors that say that, probably,
this person has a great insight.
And the insight and extensive knowledge
can be a consequence of the presence of education.
The more educated a person is,
the more likely we are at the level of instant effect,
and the more likely we think that he knows a lot,
and he can do a lot.
That is, the presence of two higher educations
is a stronger charismatic factor than the presence of one.
The presence of a degree of excellence is much better than the absence of it.
Especially if it is a specialized one.
Various diplomas, certificates, courses, conferences.
Professional recognition.
That is, any victory or participation in any professional competition
is also a powerful charismatic, fast factor.
It is this stereotype that exploits the huge number of various professional awards
that have recently appeared.
I'm not talking about the award for cinema, art, journalism.
There are a lot of awards in business, in various specialties.
Almost every professional community holds certain competitions.
Thus, highlighting the most important people.
The presence of such a certificate on the wall,
if it is paid attention to,
will always increase the charismatic power of its owner.
That is why, by the way,
in the vast majority of organizations,
the parliamentary conference room,
where the most important guests are brought,
is lined with various cups, certificates, diplomas, certificates.
In order to emphasize that in this organization
people who work there have a wider outlook than in the average room.
So, appearance, low voice, connection with abroad, education.
These are the factors that allow you to quickly gain influence.
A very good tool is also getting to know important people.
That is, a certain reflected charisma.
If a person is familiar with showmen, with influential politicians,
in principle, with any person who is more or less famous and is popular,
this will naturally add charisma to him.
In the same list, acquaintance with well-known entrepreneurs
or with unknown but rich entrepreneurs.
Although the acquaintance can be very capricious.
These are all fast resources.
Fast resources are characterized by the fact that they work instantly,
but, unfortunately or fortunately, their action ends quite quickly.
As soon as people begin to communicate more closely with each other,
interact on business,
that is, it is important for us that this interaction is intense and on business,
then fast factors immediately begin to lose their strength.
It is no longer so important whether a person is tall or short,
whether he has a low voice or a high one,
whether he has awards and prizes or not.
Whether he has been abroad 10 times in the last year or only once in Egypt.
This is no longer important, because the qualities that allow him
or do not allow him to carry out the functions that we expect from the leader come to the fore.
Let me remind you, these are the four main functions.
Protect, extract, judge, distribute and direct.
All the factors that we listed in the fast zone,
they are also such only because they allow us to assume
that their carrier will perform these four functions better than anyone else.
When we begin to interact with a person,
we begin to understand how much in reality he is able to perform these functions,
how much he is really able to protect us,
how much he is really able to provide us with resources,
how much he is really and correctly able to choose the direction where we should go,
what to strive for, and how fairly he is able to judge and award.
If a person with these functions does not cope well,
then gradually the target audience will refuse this person the right to manage himself at the social level.
Of course, he will have such tools as coercion,
but he will have such a tool as material influence.
He can fine, issue bonuses, set sales interest,
he can deprive of vacation or, on the contrary, award bonus.
No one can cancel such tools.
But the ability to simply say,
guys, let's do it so that people really get up and do it,
such a person will no longer exist.
Accordingly, we refer to the long-term factors,
we refer to the factors that allow in the long term to constantly, every day,
to carry out the four main functions of the leader,
to protect, to extract, to direct and to distribute.
What is needed for this?
It is quite obvious.
First of all, of course, professional competence is needed for this.
Moreover, if we talk about top managers,
then this competence is not in the specialty.
Here, a top manager may not be a professional.
He must have an idea, but no more,
so as not to interfere with the specialists doing their job.
And he must be a professional as a manager.
He must understand how social systems function,
what groups are,
what stages of their dynamics they go through
before turning into a really effective unit.
How to turn a working group into a team?
How?
He will need a lot of knowledge of psychology
to understand what is happening between people
and what exactly needs to be influenced
to avoid conflicts and to get an effective job.
Of course, such a factor as the ability to communicate,
the ability to communicate is necessary for such a leader on a permanent basis.
Because he will need to constantly have the ability to express his thoughts,
to be able to organize discussions correctly,
to moderate this discussion properly.
All this requires a good communication skill.
As a result, it is worth noting that working on your communication,
on your ability to communicate well,
is a very important tool,
because it works as a fast tool and as a long-term tool.
And the third thing is that this person should really behave like a leader,
to follow certain behavioral orders,
which will be associated with the image of a charismatic leader,
with the image of a father, and will not contradict him.
Well, today we have already talked a lot about
what is important to do as a leader.
Some behavioral rules need to be followed.
It's time to analyze this issue a little more in detail.
So, what is the basis for the ability of a leader to manage his target audience?
It is based on the fact that people who follow this leader trust him.
The first and most important quality in the relationship system
that arises between the leader and his accomplices is trust.
Accomplices must trust their leader,
and the leader must trust his accomplices.
Only then will the first ones listen to their leader without any doubts,
and only then will the leader be able to really rely on them,
to count on them doing what he wants from them.
So, the most important category that should exist
in the relationship between the leader and his accomplices is trust.
Therefore, the behavior that the leader should adhere to
should not contradict, but at most strengthen this quality.
That is, he should behave in such a way
that the degree of trust in him increases.
A fairly simple rule follows from here.
Rule number one.
The leader must be an absolutely obligatory person.
He said, he did.
That is, he must, firstly, be able to make promises,
take responsibility for them, and, secondly,
if he has already taken the lead, then he does not say that he is not going.
He said, he did.
Of course, it is impossible to always keep all your promises.
In such cases, the leader must, again,
not let people be in the unknown.
At the moment when it becomes clear that it is impossible to keep promises,
the leader must approach his people absolutely honestly and openly
and tell them that this promise will not be fulfilled,
but, for example, some other promise will be fulfilled.
Thus, we come to the next category, the category of openness.
Of course, openness can only be allowed by a really strong leader.
Why?
Because when the leader opens up completely,
he thus makes himself more predictable,
more understandable for his target audience,
so that what happens with social distance?
It decreases.
That is, if the reformation is not very strong in terms of significant factors,
then such a leader risks to fall into the trap.
Therefore, with openness, the leader must be very careful,
not to overdo it.
It is necessary to clearly understand how strong the advantage is in front of the target audience.
And, by the way, for those leaders who have very strong significant signs,
so much so that they risk that the separation,
even in the positive direction of increasing social distance,
can throw them into the zone of strangers,
I advise such leaders, on the contrary, to show as much openness as possible,
maybe even to engage in personal interaction with their subordinates.
To drink beer in the evening,
just to talk about the soul,
to ask about the soul once again,
to ask like a family,
that is, to create additional approximating factors,
so as not to fly out of the zone of a stranger.
That is, openness is a tool
with which you can additionally adjust the social distance
between the leader and his target audience.
But obligation is a tough and absolute requirement.
If every fulfilled promise adds trust,
every unfulfilled promise is five times stronger,
it kills trust.
It is enough to do it only a few times.
No matter how high the level of trust in the leader is,
it is enough to fail to fulfill your promises several times in a row,
and the ability to influence people through positive social motivation disappears.
The leader cannot afford to be unnecessary.
That is why, for example, when I am called a charismatic leader of showmen,
I am slightly disturbed.
Because publicity, fame, of course, is a good significant factor.
Publicly famous people, of course, have a wide circle of acquaintances.
They are popular, they have a wide access to information.
But it is not a fact that they use this information properly.
It is not a fact that they really understand how to do one thing or another.
And it is absolutely not a fact that they know how to keep their word.
And by the way, if we are talking about political leaders,
there is nothing worse for a political career of a leader
than to give a public promise, a tough and clear one,
the kind of promise that should be, and then not to keep it.
That is why, by the way, most of the current politicians avoid giving any clear promises.
The promises they make, the promises they call such, have a vague common character.
As a result, it is impossible to understand whether such a promise is kept or not.
As a result, they do not risk losing trust.
But they also cannot gain trust in this way.
A person who can really give tough, clear promises and keep them for a long time,
instantly, with each next promise, the more significant it is,
the more power and ability to manage the people to whom he gave this promise.
Or who know that he made such a promise.
In business, for example, the reputation that my company has,
is largely based on the fact that, for example, we are always tough and clear in financial affairs.
If we have agreed with our partners that we will pay the agreed terms and conditions,
we will do exactly that.
Because we have a clear and tough rule.
Either we do not agree, or we agree in such a way that we really keep our word.
Moreover, it does not depend on how our partners behave.
They can violate their commitments, but we will fulfill our commitments in any case.
Because it is important not only in relation to these specific agents, as we have behaved,
but for all other people in the market, for all other business community,
it is extremely important to have information that, for example,
Cameo keeps its word and always fulfills its financial obligations.
This increases the degree of trust.
As a result, we can communicate with these people and agree on something,
and influence their commercial policies.
And plus, this reduces their financial risks,
and allows us to get better conditions,
because partners do not need to take risks.
So, I will repeat again, because this is extremely important for any charismatic leader of the rule.
The first rule is commitment.
You need to be able to give clear promises,
which have certain deadlines, certain numerical parameters of execution,
so that you can clearly say whether you did it or not.
And then keep your word, fulfill your obligations on time.
The second behavioral rule, which is only two,
everything else is a consequence of the first two.
The second rule I call anti-victim.
So, the second behavioral rule is anti-victim.
By this word, I mean a certain combination of behavioral techniques,
behavioral rules, combined with one common thought.
This is the thought of how not to behave.
Of course, this typology is somewhat conditional.
On the other hand, this is a very good practical tool.
It allows you to easily understand at any time whether you are behaving as a leader should or not.
So, if you are able to assess your own behavior,
listen to yourself, see the reflection of your behavior in the eyes of others,
you will be able to constantly correct your behavior in the right direction every minute.
As a result, the level of trust in you from your target audience,
your people will increase, and the ability to manage them will also increase.
So, anti-victim.
From the title, it is clear that a leader should behave in the opposite way than a victim.
Let's see how animals or people who become victims behave.
What do they do?
Well, the first thing is that we talked a lot about the voice today.
A high, piercing voice is a sign of a victim.
A weak, saturated tone of this voice.
A bad tone. A weak tone.
How does a victim behave?
A classic victim behavior.
The victim is afraid.
The victim runs away.
The victim hides.
If we talk about behavior while communicating, then the victim is in a hurry.
If we speak from the point of view of the appearance, physiology,
then the victim tries to hide, protect the vulnerable parts of his own body.
There is a simple rule that tells you how a person is arranged from the point of view of attack and defense.
Everything that is outside the person, the back, the outer surface of the arms, the outer surface of the hips,
these are all protective shells.
They are characterized by the fact that there is a small amount of veins, arteries.
There are hard muscles, large muscles that can withstand a strong load, strong damage.
The bones that protrude from the outside are able to take outlines without corners,
which are able to fit into any hard surface.
If you do a handstand, you will easily understand what the protective outer contours are.
Everything that is inside is the most vulnerable parts of the human body.
This is the inner surface of the neck.
This is the inner surface of the hands.
Look at your hands from the inside.
You see veins.
They come right to the surface.
Turn your hand over, you will see that there are no veins at all.
The stomach, the inner surface of the hips, the most powerful arteries and veins pass through the inner surface of the neck,
this is the sleeping artery, and through the inner surface of the hips.
If a person is cut one of these veins, then he practically, without special assistance,
practically 100% dies from blood loss.
Therefore, these are the most vulnerable parts of the human body.
The leader trusts the world around him.
The leader trusts his accomplices.
Therefore, he does not need to hide those parts of his body that are the most vulnerable.
He is sure that he can withstand external threats.
He is calm and confident.
As a result, these parts of his body are open.
He is able to make open gestures.
He does not clamp his neck.
He is able to put his leg outward.
The victim behaves in a completely different way.
The classic sign of a victim is a head pulled into his shoulders.
Like this.
Walk down the street today or tomorrow and see how people around you walk.
At least half of the people will have a muscle clamp in the neck area.
They try to instinctively cover their neck from external threats.
And when we see this, we instinctively refuse these people the ability to control themselves,
the ability to be charismatic leaders.
Because they directly demonstrate their fear to us.
This does not mean that a charismatic leader is not afraid.
But a charismatic leader trusts his own strength more,
trusts his own accomplices more than he is afraid of.
And that's why he is able to be open.
Not clamped.
So, neck clamp.
A classic sign.
A humped back is also a way to hide internal organs from external threats.
A clamped back.
Tightly compressed legs.
Look at how in all public speaking courses they advise to spread your legs a little.
Not very wide, because it is not functional and a person is not able to move effectively from this position.
But at the level of the shoulders.
As a result, the legs are open.
In principle, the position is quite open.
And they advise to spread your legs a little.
That is, opening the legs.
Making an open gesture.
A direct opposite is a closed gesture, a closed position.
A person standing in this position will never be able to lead anyone in his life.
He can still convince, but he will never be able to lead.
The audience will not trust such a person.
And the last rule that I wanted to bring from the assortment of anti-victims.
It is clear that there are a lot of them.
And you can always understand how you behave as a victim or not as a victim.
But I would like to draw your attention to one more important rule.
What does a puppy do when a big healthy dog approaches him?
The puppy falls on his back.
Opens the belly, demonstrating the vulnerability itself, so that he is not touched.
And let the jet.
In this case, we are only concerned about the first reaction.
The puppy goes down.
No matter how healthy he is and no matter how small the adult dog is.
The puppy, refusing to enter into rivalry or equal communication with this individual, goes down.
So, the victim is the one who is at the bottom.
This is one of the reasons why high growth allows you to be more significant.
The effect is that the one at the bottom is in a more vulnerable position.
It is much easier to attack from above.
The force of gravity itself helps to cause damage from top to bottom.
Thus, the one who is at the bottom takes the position of the victim.
The one who goes down.
He says that I am at the bottom, I am obviously weaker than you, do not offend me.
And can even open his belly.
Thus, look carefully at how you communicate.
This is especially important in communication with significant people.
You always want to sit down a little in their presence.
Bow your head to the side.
To portray a look from bottom to top.
All this is a recognition of yourself.
The attitude of yourself is lower to this person than he is.
If you are a leader, if you are a boss.
Then your advantage over your subordinates is very small.
It can be a drop that will weigh over and as a result will lower your charismatic advantage.
If you start looking from bottom to top at your subordinates.
They will stop perceiving you as a leader.
In this case, it is important to be a little higher.
On the other hand, it is very important not to abuse these rules.
The classic boss's table looks like a very high chair.
A very high chair, a high chair.
And there, it means, the boss is sitting down.
The subordinate is forced to sit down somewhere at the bottom.
On the table, whose surface is much lower.
And as a result, it will be much lower.
The classic table for bureaucratic meetings looks like this.
A high table for the boss and a table for all other managers who will meet with him with a strong enough reduction.
Thus, the role of the leader is emphasized, it is strengthened.
It worked well before.
Because, by and large, there was no need for significant differences between top managers and managers.
Everyone just played his role in the bureaucratic apparatus.
By and large, they were absolutely equal.
And this technique was needed specifically to raise the leaders above the rest.
So that they do not get confused and remember who their leader is.
Now, when the world is changing very quickly, when the level of competition has increased sharply,
it is extremely important to really have professional qualities.
Therefore, the leader, if he is a really significant leader,
absolutely does not need to raise his table or chair even higher.
If he does so, it signals the opposite.
Now it will signal to his managers that he is afraid to compete with them,
he is afraid to take the same level as them.
As a result, they will begin to experience...
So, the modern rule says very simply.
You can't be under, you can't hang from above.
When we hang from above, we do not suppress the intellect, but we suppress our physical superiority.
Of course, if your desire is to suppress the opponent, then this is absolutely natural.
But if you want to use positive social motivation,
if you want to entice a person and lead him after you,
then you should never press him from above.
You can be at an easy elevation if you speak in front of a large audience.
It is big, but you are a little higher.
This is to balance each other.
But if you speak with a person and he is below you,
and you look at him from top to bottom,
you are additionally humiliating him and attacking him.
And he will naturally move away from you and defend himself.
It will be harder for you to convince him, it will be harder for you to lead him after you.
So, rule number two. Anti-victim.
Whatever you do, it always makes sense to think whether you are acting as a victim or not.
Are you acting in the opposite way to the victim?
This is a very good metaphor, it allows you to always understand at any time whether you are acting right.
So, there are only two behavioral rules that you need to remember to become effective charismatic leaders.
The first one is a commitment, the second one is an anti-victim.
So, in today's course we have discussed what charisma is and how to develop it.